
Lab 1 Writeup - Trina Goetz

My solution(s) for this lab are as follows: 
Insertion: I check if there is enough free space in the page to insert the given value plus a new slot just incase. I consolidate
    freespace every time I insert a value so I don't hold any slots hostage. I keep track of what slots are in use with a value in 
    the slot's metadata, 0 if empty, 1 if in use by a record. When I check for total free space, I add the space between the header
    and the free space end offset to the sum of all the slots not in use at the moment. When I consolidate (only when I know I have 
    the space), I empty the unused slots completely so I know I can use them when adding, and I shift all the records to the "right"
    side of the page, so all the free space ends up between the header and when the records start. Then I search for an empty slot
    and insert the record at the end of the free space. 
Deletion: I make sure the slot is already in use, and then if it is, all I do is set the "used" value in the slot to 0 so I know that
    it is now free space. I keep track of it this way because it lets me not consolidate every time, but it also gives me an easy way
    to calculate TOTAL free space by looping through the slots with this value set to 0 and adding the lengths. I did not want to make
    a global to keep track of free space because I have had bugs with global variables in past projects and I figured this is a safer 
    way to get the exact free space every time I want to add. I don't do anyting else in deletion becuase we shouldn't be reading from 
    the bytes at this value's offset anymore anyways, and when I consolidate it will get rid of them. 

I spent around 6 hours on this lab, including planning/designing and implementing the functions required. I liked all of the documentation, 
    it was very helpful to see exactly what each function would do, and it was easy to plan with these guidelines. I also like the
    specific types for SlotId and Offset and PageId, these were easy to keep track of and made the math easier. The hardest part for me was
    making the iterator since I haven't made a custom one in a while, but once I remembered how to do it, it wasn't that bad to complete.
